INSERT INTO category(category_name,category_description)
VALUES
(' Technical Skills/ Engineering' , 'Technical Skills/ Engineering It is not unusual to see skilful youth desperate to secure a job when they have more than it takes to earn a reasonable amount of money into their pocket on monthly basis. This section aims at enhancing artisans in construction, maintenance, repairs and production of utility items, in terms of skill development training. Project empower is founded to combat unemployment through suggestion of reasonable means of utilization of individual skills to fully eliminate dependency on scarce jobs and to fully expose job seekers to more productive high-value power tools for fast operations and better productivity. Project Empower Initiatives will empower all individuals through improved skills, knowledge, nationally and internationally recognized qualifications to gain access to decent employment and ensure Nigeria’s competitiveness in the global market. Skills and knowledge are the driving forces of economic growth and social development for any country. Countries with higher and better levels of skills adjust more effectively to the challenges and opportunities of world of work. Major challenge of skill development initiatives is also to address the needs of huge population by providing skills in order to make them employable and help them secure decent work. Skill development for persons working in the unorganized sector is a key strategy in that direction. This will also inculcate dignity of labour and create greater awareness towards environmental, safety and health concerns. Technical skill building can be viewed as an instrument to improve the effectiveness and contribution of labour to the overall production. It is as an important ingredient to push the production possibility frontier outward and to take growth rate of the economy to a higher trajectory. Skill building could also be seen as an instrument to empower the individual and improve his/her social acceptance or value. Below are different types of technical skills you can target and make decent income from. '),
(' Information and Communication Technology' , 'The impact of ICT usage on unemployment rate in Nigeria can bring great success in improving the general standard of living. The challenges confronting the nation’s economy in the 21st Century are diverse and enormous and they have kept the economy in the most unacceptable state owing to the fact that it is a country abundantly blessed and enormously endowed with both human and natural resources but whose potentials remained largely untapped and even mismanaged. On a global scale, for example, the impact of the ICT on an economy is expected to be impressive and could be responsible for creating new investment and employment opportunities. In India for instance, the export of computer software as of 1999 was already in excess of U.S. $2 billion and was set to become Indias largest export industry before the end of the first decade of the 21st Century. Also, with the rise of knowledge economy and the wide application of ICT, electronic and website technology are widely used in the big (small office and home office mushroomed in big cities) and medium-sized cities in China. In other words, working at home is not strange any more. Hence, the quest for economic development in Nigeria has been the key priority to the government and other policy makers. Below are different ICT skills that you can target and make decent income from. '),
(' Manufacturing and production' , 'The major problems of this nation are high production costs, poor infrastructures, finance, competition from fake and sub-standard imported goods, limited scope of operation, among a myriad of other obstacles. Nigeria’s manufacturing sector has been operating under very unfavourable environments and contribution little to the nation’s GDP and many firms had closed down due to lack of patronage of their products both in Nigeria and beyond. Nigeria, a country that wants to be one of the twenty biggest economies should have a developed and vibrant manufacturing sector. Such a dynamic sector will generate massive employment, fight poverty, create wealth, and enhance exports and diversify foreign exchange earnings. Our efforts in this article were to highlight all the factors impeding effective growth of the manufacturing sector and proffered strategies which if implemented religiously will surely lead to Nigeria becoming one of the twenty biggest economies. Below are different things you can manufacture to make decent income from. '),
(' Fashion and Fitness' , 'What can be seen from most gym financial statements that have a critical mass of members is that the general membership revenue is what pays the bills. In order to make any significant profit you will need to generate revenue outside of membership fees. Remember people are looking for ways to lose weight and classes provide an ample opportunity for the exercise challenged. Popular classes now are yoga, pilates, aerobic classes, circuit training, military fitness, kickboxing, dance and crossfit. By having the classes you also are going to have trainers who the members look to for advice on meeting their goals. Having the trainers push expensive supplements, vitamins and so on will boost revenues as well. In the end if you want to make money with a gym, this is a business not a hobby. A business plan will be the key if you want to create the best odds of success as you must think everything through. Creating a good and solid business plan can be painful at first, especially if you`ve never had your own business, but it works. You need to figure out exactly how many members you need to be successful, figure out a possible and likely growth rate to determine when you will hit that essential number and how to measure your success as you go! Fashion on the other hand is a popular style or practice, especially in clothing, footwear, accessories, makeup, body, or furniture. Fashion is a distinctive and often constant trend in the style in which a person dresses. It is the prevailing styles in behaviour and the newest creations of textile designers. Below are sections under Fashion and fitness that you can target and make decent income from. '),
(' Transportation' , 'If you have been looking forward to creating a stream of income to make your dream come true, then you can stop the search right now. You have just come to the place where you will discover the fastest and easiest way to start earning money on your own that will help you turn your dreams into reality. To succeed in transport business, you must first be ready to invest your time and effort to make it work. Proper supervision is also very important especially if you are going to employ a driver to manage it for you. But above all, you must give the best of your time and be serious with the business. This business involves a huge start-up capital and fortunately there lot of lenders willing to finance your business. With genuineness in your approach and proper planning, getting funding will not be difficult. If you have the opportunity to collect one or two Buses, or trucks from some of the financiers; you have to pay back the debt as at when due. This way, the confidence they have in you will increase and they can give you any number of vehicles you want. Below are the Different Sectors of the road transport industry that you can target and make decent income from. '),
(' Sales and Management' , 'Everyone is qualified to sell a service because each of us has skills, knowledge or experience that other people are willing to pay for in the form of a service, or they are willing to pay you to teach them your specific skill or knowledge. Selling services knows no boundaries--anyone with a need or desire to earn extra money, work from home, or start and operate a full-time business can sell a service, regardless of age, business experience, education or current financial resources. There are many advantages associated with starting your own business selling services. Perhaps the biggest advantage is you become your own boss, take control of your future, and in effect become the master of your destiny. I have been self-employed for a number of years and for me the lure of self-employment is the freedom and independence that calling the shots affords, which can be difficult to achieve when you work for others. Below are different services that can be rendered to make decent income from. '),
(' Entertainment and Event Management' , 'In the recent past, creative art and entertainment industry were seen as unserious business ventures that are not worth going into. Parents, friends and associates of entertainers often perceive them as never do well in the society. Some families will go the extra mile of disowning any of their offspring that decides to make a carrier in the entertainment industry. Either as a musician, actors/actresses, dancer, model, footballer, etc, the person involved is held in a very low esteem by the member of his immediate family and the society at large. Though the industry had made an appreciable progress in the recent time, there are still a lot of cynicisms surrounding the trade that needed to be eschewed to enable gifted artists and entertainer to embrace the profession without fear of stigmatization from immediate family members and the larger community. However the recent economic boom in the industry is helping in no small measure to neutralize the long age stereotype that had kept the industry in a disadvantage position. Virtually all the segments of the entertainment industry today are a multi-billion dollar business. The contribution of the Nollywood to the overall development of the nation’s economy cannot be overemphasized. The Nigerian film industry is second only to petroleum product in term of the nation’s foreign earning. As you critically examine many residential areas in different parts of the country, one of the major omissions you will notice is the absence of various facilities that contribute to a higher quality of life. It seems that most of our residential areas are allowed to develop haphazardly without proper planning and regulation. Often, you will not find only a single recreation area or community centre. To make matters worse, where there is a provision made for this public facility, some of them may have been changed from their original use or the land allocated to such developments reallocated to individuals. Generally, it seems there is very little that the government does in this area. The good news, however, is that several entrepreneurs are already making provisions for these deficits and those who can solve this problem will earn a handsome profit from doing so. One of those opportunities presents itself in the form of the provision of events centres. These are a form of community centres that are specifically built to provide an ideal place for individuals, organisations and workers for social interaction and happier family life. Event centres also have the potential for spinoff businesses that can be created alongside such as rental of chairs and tables, sale of ice blocks, small chops and catering services. In addition, the operation has significant benefit over rental properties in the aspect of payment of rents. When a person rents an event centre, he often pays in advance but when a person is a tenant, he may choose to pay his rent in arrears or delay the payment of rent. Below are different aspects of entertainment that you can target and make decent income from. '),
(' Healthcare' , 'As an important element of national security, public health not only functions to provide adequate and timely medical care but also track, monitor, and control disease outbreak. The Nigerian health care had suffered several infectious disease outbreaks year after year. Hence, there is need to tackle the problem. This study aims to review the state of the Nigerian health care system and to provide possible recommendations to the worsening state of health care in the country. To give up-to-date recommendations for the Nigerian health care system, this study also aims at reviewing the dynamics of health care in other nations with regards to methods of medical intelligence/surveillance. Provision of timely information aimed at combating possible health menace among many other things is an important function of public health. Hence, inadequate tracking techniques in the public health sector can lead to huge health insecurity, and hence endanger national security. It should therefore be acknowledge that tackling these health issues will not only provide reasonable source of income on the long run but also impact on the growth of the nation through provision of longer life span for the citizen of the nation. Below are different aspects of Health Care that you can target and make decent income from '),
(' Agriculture' , 'Agriculture in Nigeria has remained unattractive to our youth because of failure of government to mechanise the sector. The exodus of rural youth means fewer small-scale farmers tomorrow, which will lead to drastically changing the profile of farming. Today, youth unemployment is both a threat and an opportunity, as the agricultural sector offers huge potential for job creation and realising this can radically change the image of agriculture among young people. To achieve this, It is best to provide a platform to help individuals with little capital with ideas and valuable information on how to be self-dependent and live a comfortable life with whatever is been generated from their labour. Agriculture, given its major role in the rural economy, has the potential to provide solutions to the current problems of youth unemployment in the country and slow the pace of rural-urban migration. There is no doubt that the power of the youth in Nigeria’s agriculture can be unleashed if the institutional structures and policy instruments are put in place to provide the necessary training and access to finance and mentoring that could help influence their visions of agriculture as an economic activity. Making money from an agricultural business requires knowledge of farming practices as well as some experience in developing a business. Before you decide on an idea, create a business plan that includes research on market demand for the products you grow and how to get them to market. You’ll also need a solid financing plan, as most agricultural businesses require access to large parcels of land and farm equipment to get started. Below are different Agricultural aspects that you can target and make decent income from. '),
(' Art/Craft' , 'Nigeria art and craft sector plays a key role in generating income to the country and attracting tourists. There are a number of shops that are selling art and crafts pieces from different countries in Africa. If you are sure you are knowledgeable in this field, why not be the person to train others and earn substantial profits for your efforts? Days, evenings or weekends, arts and crafts can be taught from a home-based studio, rented commercial space, in partnership with a crafts retailer whose space you use, in conjunction with a community centre or school, or even at a park if weather permits. Promote your classes through arts and crafts retailers, by running advertisements in the newspaper, networking at business and social functions, posting notices on community bulletin boards, and by exhibiting at arts and crafts shows. Creative entrepreneurs may even choose to film and broadcast their training classes via the internet to a worldwide student base. The options are nearly limitless when you have a skill that other people are willing to pay to learn. Rates will vary depending on how many people are in each class, material and equipment requirements, and the art or craft being taught. Below are different aspects of Art and Craft that you can target and make decent income from. '),
(' Laundry and Cleaning' , 'A well-managed dry cleaning business will attract good patronage because patrons of the business cut across various segments of the economy – both corporate and individuals. It is a good business, although it has its own challenges but there is a prospect on it and it is a fine business for anyone that understands it. Dry cleaning business is a viable income and job generating venture. Truly speaking, the return on investment is more than 100 present. The ease of establishment can also not be overemphasised as it is not capital intensive. Job seekers and those who are just retiring from services should invest in this business. There is also the need for people to look inwards as against looking for white-collar jobs that are not just there. There is also further need to create income and employment opportunities centre where people could be trained on skills acquisition and also thought on various income opportunities. It is also not exclusive of those who intend to diversify their business to create another stream of income. There is the need to set up such project in the urban centres where there is heavy flow of medium- and high-income earners. Below are different sections of laundry that you can target and make decent income from. '),
(' Capital market' , 'Capital markets are the bedrock foundation of our nations economy. Our capital markets recognize and drive capital to the best ideas and enterprises, enabling workers to save for retirement, students to pay for their education, businesses to grow, and communities to finance sustainable development. Explore the companies and municipalities in your state that are accessing the capital markets to drive economic growth. The capital market functions as a link between savers and investors. It plays an important role in mobilising the savings and diverting them in productive investment. In this way, capital market plays a vital role in transferring the financial resources from surplus and wasteful areas to deficit and productive areas, thus increasing the productivity and prosperity of the country. With the development of capital, market, the banking and non-banking institutions provide facilities, which encourage people to save more. In the less- developed countries, in the absence of a capital market, there are very little savings and those who save often invest their savings in unproductive and wasteful directions, i.e., in real estate (like land, gold, and jewellery) and conspicuous consumption. Below are different opportunities you can take advantage of. '),
(' Services and skills' , 'If you possess skills or experience that others want and admire, you are in an advantageous position to offer your services on a retainer or hourly basis. This side business certainly is not for everyone, as you will need a healthy dose of patience and the ability to help try and guide others through the challenges they are facing. This requires a lot of your time, but you will have the potential to establish lifelong meaningful relationships with others in your industry. It will be appropriate to have regular one on one meetings with the employers. Get to know the history and aspirations of each employee. Establish time lines and benchmarks to measure progress. Help people understand how their careers, lives, and the world at large will profit from their contributions. Below are different opportunities under skills and services you can take advantage of.');
